# Scripts and Code for "GGTyper: genotyping complex structural variants using short-read sequencing data" (Mirus et al., 2024). 
All results in the paper are obtained via these scripts. 

Divided in `simulations` and `real` data.
Each folder contains one main script that executes the individual parts.
Note that many paths (real data, reference genome, required tools) are machine-specific.
The scripts cannot be expected to run as they are.

*Data* is not included.
- Simulated data can be reconstructed from variant descriptions and genotype files included here. 
These files were generated by the data simulation and included here for reproducibility. 
Re-running the scripts would produce different data.
- Real data must be downloaded and placed in appropriate locations and the scripts need
to be adjusted accordingly.

*Results* as reported in the publication are included.
Plots are contained in the `real/plots` and `simulation/plots`.
Text files with results and stats are mainly in `real/decode_results`, `real/polarisResults` and
`simulation/results` in various files and subfolders.
  
### Required software
- python v3.10.13
- sv_simulator (https://git.uni-regensburg.de/mit16436/sv_simulator)
- GGTyper v0.0.9
- KMC v3.2.2
- Paragraph v2.4a
- BayesTyper v1.5 including human reference bundle (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ioTjLFkfmvOMsXubJS5_rwpfajPv5G1Q/view?pli=1)
- samtools v1.17
- bwa v.0.7.17-r1188
- ART_Illumina v2.5.8
- bcftools v1.14 (using htslib v.1.17)
- R v4.3.2 
    - tidyverse
    - Cairo
    - gridExtra
